README.md, before:

# WhisperTube 🎥 ➡️ 📝

Transcribe YouTube videos using OpenAI's Whisper and summarize them using GPT-4o, with special handling for mathematical expressions in LaTeX! ✨

## 🌟 Features

- 🎥 Download audio from YouTube videos
- 🎯 Transcribe audio using OpenAI's Whisper
- 🤖 Summarize transcriptions using GPT-4o
- 📐 Format mathematical expressions in LaTeX
- 📝 Save transcriptions and summaries in Markdown
- ⚡ Command-line interface for easy use
- 🔒 Secure API key handling

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
WhisperTube/
├── src/
│   └── whispertube/
│       ├── __init__.py      # Package initialization
│       ├── __main__.py      # CLI entry point
│       └── transcriber.py   # Core functionality
├── tests/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── conftest.py         # Test fixtures
│   └── test_transcribe_youtube.py
├── transcripts/            # Output directory
├── .env.example           # Environment variables template
├── .gitignore
├── .pre-commit-config.yaml
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── pyproject.toml
├── requirements.in        # Core dependencies
└── requirements-dev.in    # Development dependencies
```

## 🚀 Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/WhisperTube.git
cd WhisperTube
```

2. Create and activate virtual environment:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
# For development
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# For production
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Set up your OpenAI API key:

```bash
# Create .env file from template
cp .env.example .env

# Edit .env and add your API key in this format:
# OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your_api_key_here

# For example:
# OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-abc123def456...
```

> ⚠️ **Important**: Your OpenAI API key should start with 'sk-'. Keep this key secure and never commit it to version control.

## 🎮 Usage

### Command Line Interface 💻

```bash
# Basic usage (will prompt for URL)
whispertube

# Specify URL directly
whispertube --url "https://youtube.com/watch?v=..."

# Specify output directory
whispertube --url "..." --output-dir "./transcripts"
```

### Python API 🐍

```python
from whispertube import download_youtube_video, transcribe_audio, summarize_transcription

# Download video
audio_path, video_title = download_youtube_video(url, output_path)

# Transcribe audio
transcription = transcribe_audio(audio_path)

# Summarize transcription
summary = summarize_transcription(transcription)
```

## 🛠️ Development

1. Install development dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

2. Set up pre-commit hooks:

```bash
pre-commit install
```

3. Run tests:

```bash
pytest
```

4. Update dependencies:

```bash
# Update runtime dependencies
pip-compile requirements.in

# Update development dependencies
pip-compile requirements-dev.in -o requirements-dev.txt
```

## 📋 Requirements

- 🐍 Python 3.10+
- 🎵 FFmpeg
- 🔑 OpenAI API key

### Installing FFmpeg

#### macOS

Using Homebrew (recommended):
```bash
# Install Homebrew if you haven't already
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

# Install FFmpeg
brew install ffmpeg
```

Or download directly from [FFmpeg's official website](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html#build-mac).

#### Windows

1. **Using Chocolatey** (recommended):
   ```bash
   # Install Chocolatey if you haven't already (run in admin PowerShell)
   Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol -bor 3072; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://community.chocolatey.org/install.ps1'))

   # Install FFmpeg
   choco install ffmpeg
   ```

2. **Manual Installation**:
   - Download the latest FFmpeg build from [FFmpeg's official website](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html#build-windows)
   - Extract the ZIP file to a directory (e.g., `C:\ffmpeg`)
   - Add FFmpeg to your system's PATH:
     1. Open **System Properties** (Win + X → System)
     2. Click **Advanced system settings**
     3. Click **Environment Variables**
     4. Under **System Variables**, find and select **Path**
     5. Click **Edit**
     6. Click **New**
     7. Add the path to FFmpeg's bin folder (e.g., `C:\ffmpeg\bin`)
     8. Click **OK** on all windows

#### Verify Installation

After installation, verify FFmpeg is properly installed:
```bash
ffmpeg -version
```

This should display FFmpeg version information. If you get a "command not found" error, ensure FFmpeg is properly added to your system's PATH.

## 🔄 Workflow

1. Input: YouTube URL
2. Download: Extract audio using yt-dlp
3. Transcribe: Process audio with Whisper
4. Enhance: Summarize using GPT-4o
5. Output: Save as Markdown with LaTeX formatting

## 📝 License

[MIT License](LICENSE)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [OpenAI](https://openai.com) for their amazing Whisper and GPT models
- [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) for reliable YouTube video downloading
- All contributors and users of this project

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

- Ensure FFmpeg is installed and accessible
- Check your OpenAI API key is valid
- Verify your Python version is 3.10 or higher
- Make sure you have sufficient disk space for audio files

## 📬 Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions:

1. Check the [Issues](https://github.com/yourusername/WhisperTube/issues) page
2. Open a new issue if needed
3. Provide as much detail as possible about your problem

Commit message:

docs: Add package installation instructions
- Add editable mode installation steps
- Add virtual environment reminder
- Add command verification steps
- Include examples of CLI usage
- Add installation verification commands

This helps users properly install and verify the whispertube command.

README.md, after:

# WhisperTube 🎥 ➡️ 📝

Transcribe YouTube videos using OpenAI's Whisper and summarize them using GPT-4o, with special handling for mathematical expressions in LaTeX! ✨

## 🌟 Features

- 🎥 Download audio from YouTube videos
- 🎯 Transcribe audio using OpenAI's Whisper
- 🤖 Summarize transcriptions using GPT-4o
- 📐 Format mathematical expressions in LaTeX
- 📝 Save transcriptions and summaries in Markdown
- ⚡ Command-line interface for easy use
- 🔒 Secure API key handling

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
WhisperTube/
├── src/
│   └── whispertube/
│       ├── __init__.py      # Package initialization
│       ├── __main__.py      # CLI entry point
│       └── transcriber.py   # Core functionality
├── tests/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── conftest.py         # Test fixtures
│   └── test_transcribe_youtube.py
├── transcripts/            # Output directory
├── .env.example           # Environment variables template
├── .gitignore
├── .pre-commit-config.yaml
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── pyproject.toml
├── requirements.in        # Core dependencies
└── requirements-dev.in    # Development dependencies
```

## 🚀 Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/WhisperTube.git
cd WhisperTube
```

2. Create and activate virtual environment:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
# For development
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# For production
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Set up your OpenAI API key:

```bash
# Create .env file from template
cp .env.example .env

# Edit .env and add your API key in this format:
# OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your_api_key_here

# For example:
# OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-abc123def456...
```

> ⚠️ **Important**: Your OpenAI API key should start with 'sk-'. Keep this key secure and never commit it to version control.

## 🎮 Usage

### Command Line Interface 💻

First, install the package in editable mode:
```bash
# Make sure you're in your virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate

# Install in editable mode
pip install -e .
```

Now you can use the `whispertube` command:
```bash
# Basic usage (will prompt for URL)
whispertube

# Specify URL directly
whispertube --url "https://youtube.com/watch?v=..."

# Specify output directory
whispertube --url "..." --output-dir "./transcripts"
```

Verify the installation:
```bash
# Check if whispertube is installed
pip list | grep whispertube

# Check where it's installed
which whispertube
```

### Python API 🐍

```python
from whispertube import download_youtube_video, transcribe_audio, summarize_transcription

# Download video
audio_path, video_title = download_youtube_video(url, output_path)

# Transcribe audio
transcription = transcribe_audio(audio_path)

# Summarize transcription
summary = summarize_transcription(transcription)
```

## 🛠️ Development

1. Install development dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

2. Set up pre-commit hooks:

```bash
pre-commit install
```

3. Run tests:

```bash
pytest
```

4. Update dependencies:

```bash
# Update runtime dependencies
pip-compile requirements.in

# Update development dependencies
pip-compile requirements-dev.in -o requirements-dev.txt
```

## 📋 Requirements

- 🐍 Python 3.10+
- 🎵 FFmpeg
- 🔑 OpenAI API key

### Installing FFmpeg

#### macOS

Using Homebrew (recommended):
```bash
# Install Homebrew if you haven't already
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

# Install FFmpeg
brew install ffmpeg
```

Or download directly from [FFmpeg's official website](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html#build-mac).

#### Windows

1. **Using Chocolatey** (recommended):
   ```bash
   # Install Chocolatey if you haven't already (run in admin PowerShell)
   Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol -bor 3072; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://community.chocolatey.org/install.ps1'))

   # Install FFmpeg
   choco install ffmpeg
   ```

2. **Manual Installation**:
   - Download the latest FFmpeg build from [FFmpeg's official website](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html#build-windows)
   - Extract the ZIP file to a directory (e.g., `C:\ffmpeg`)
   - Add FFmpeg to your system's PATH:
     1. Open **System Properties** (Win + X → System)
     2. Click **Advanced system settings**
     3. Click **Environment Variables**
     4. Under **System Variables**, find and select **Path**
     5. Click **Edit**
     6. Click **New**
     7. Add the path to FFmpeg's bin folder (e.g., `C:\ffmpeg\bin`)
     8. Click **OK** on all windows

#### Verify Installation

After installation, verify FFmpeg is properly installed:
```bash
ffmpeg -version
```

This should display FFmpeg version information. If you get a "command not found" error, ensure FFmpeg is properly added to your system's PATH.

## 🔄 Workflow

1. Input: YouTube URL
2. Download: Extract audio using yt-dlp
3. Transcribe: Process audio with Whisper
4. Enhance: Summarize using GPT-4o
5. Output: Save as Markdown with LaTeX formatting

## 📝 License

[MIT License](LICENSE)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [OpenAI](https://openai.com) for their amazing Whisper and GPT models
- [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) for reliable YouTube video downloading
- All contributors and users of this project

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

- Ensure FFmpeg is installed and accessible
- Check your OpenAI API key is valid
- Verify your Python version is 3.10 or higher
- Make sure you have sufficient disk space for audio files

## 📬 Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions:

1. Check the [Issues](https://github.com/yourusername/WhisperTube/issues) page
2. Open a new issue if needed
3. Provide as much detail as possible about your problem
